Welcome to this interactive guide to living
with advanced renal cell carcinoma.
Let's start with a few instructions
to this interactive video.
When a photograph appears,
you can click on it to find out more.
When you've read enough, click the close tab.
If you want to skip forward or go back,
use the tabs on the side to navigate around,
take it in at your own pace.
And that's it for instructions.
I'm Vivian, Viv I was recently diagnosed myself.
If this has happened to you or someone
close to you, it's a lot to take in
this guide will tell you about the disease
and treatment cut through the jargon.
So you've been prescribed Avelumab
and Axitinib by your oncologist.
This means like me,
you have advanced renal cell carcinoma
or aRCC for short.
This video covers different aspects
of life with kidney cancer.
Remember, you're not alone on this journey,
your loved ones and your healthcare team are
there to support you through your treatment.
Let's start with the drugs.
You have been prescribed two medicines
to treat your kidney cancer,
Avelumab and Axitinib.
You need both together as they
work in different ways.
Avelumab and Axitinib are used together.
Clinical trials have proven that there are
advantages to using treatments that
target the immune system, alongside treatments
that act on tumor blood vessels.
It's like dealing with garden pests.
You use one thing to boost the plant,
make it stronger another to kill the black fly.
Avelumab and Axitinib are taken
in different ways.
Your healthcare team will tell you exactly
how to take each medicine.
Most medicines have side effects.
If you notice any while taking
Avelumab plus Axitinib,
talk to a member of your
healthcare team immediately
bearing in mind,
side effects can still appear weeks or even
months after your last treatment.
If you're struggling with side effects,
tell your healthcare team,
they may pause treatment
or change a dose of Axitinib.
They might stop treatment with either drug,
don't suffer in silence.
Adjusting your dosing helps you
get the best from treatment.
You may also be prescribed other medications
to prevent complications
or reduce symptoms.
You may experience side effects during
or soon after your Avelumab infusion.
If you do, tell a member of your
healthcare team immediately,
click here to find out about infusion reactions.
Receiving a paracetamol and an anti-histamine
before your Avelumab infusion
could reduce these side effects.
If things don't improve your doctor may
recommend a longer infusion time
like getting into a pool by the steps
instead of jumping right in
less of a shock to the system.
So that's the infusion reaction,
but you can experience side effects from either
drug at any time during treatment.
If any side effects start to develop,
tell a member of your healthcare team immediately.
There are other common side effects too.
If you have concerns, tell your healthcare team
they'll know what to expect, how to help.
So how do you live well during treatment?
Obviously, good nutrition is important,
but you can lose your sense of taste.
Go off things you used to love.
Taste is personal, of course, I still
like food with a crunch though,
something refreshing, but click here for some ideas.
You may find you get tired during treatment.
You might not be able to do anything
strenuous that's okay.
Your body is working hard to
fight this and needs rest,
but try to move a little each day.
See a bit of sky.
A sore a mouth is a common side effect,
use a soft toothbrush
gentle toothpaste and an alcohol
free mouthwash.
Avoid alcohol, smoking and spicy food.
Oh, and try drinking through a straw.
People can also get a skin rash,
redness and blisters
use mild soap and shampoo in
lukewarm water
and moisturise dry skin.
Baby brands are good un-perfumed and
avoid cleaning products or laundry
soaps that could irritate your skin.
Occasional diarrhea is a common side effect.
Talk to your healthcare team.
If this happens as there's medication
that can help apart from that,
treat it like holiday tummy cut down on the
fiber and avoid fatty or spicy foods.
Carbohydrates are your friends.
If you work, you will need to tell the
relevant people about your diagnosis.
So you can arrange time off for your
infusions. If you get side effects,
you may need to take extra time off.
If money is tight, there is support out there.
Breaking the news of your diagnosis to
loved ones can be one of the hardest
parts of having cancer,
but it is important to tell friends and
family so that they can support you
practically and emotionally.
They may have questions sharing this
guide may help answer them.
People will need different amounts
of information at different times,
but the internet can be a scary place.
The best source of information is
always your healthcare team.
They know you and your medical history
and can give advice tailored to you.
Click here for some other useful links.
That's all from me, I'm going to hand
over to the professionals now
Andrea Spencer-Shaw clinical nurse specialist
at The Christie NHS Foundation Trust
is ready to answer your questions.